---
title: Towny
description: Basic Tutorial to Towny
---

# Towny

Towny is the main plugin we use for claiming land and creating nations. On this page, You will figure out how to create a towny, nation and all the hidden informations in running one.
- There will be a video on how to create and run a city, which you can find our discord

## General Informaion

- 8 Chunks Per Member in Town
- Must have 3 claimed adjacent chunks to claim a new chunk
- You can buy bonus chunks depending on the town level. Every new chunk purchased will increase the cost of the next one by 5%. $50 is the price for the first chunk.
- Towns can only merge if they are bordering each other
- Cannot use /tpaccept command during a war
- 5 people must be in a town to transform into a nation
- Nation can only have a max of 8 allies

## Costs

- 10,000 for new nation
- 3,000 for a town
- 5,000 for a new town outpost

- All money has to be in the town bank to proceed
- Cannot Withdraw from Town or Nation bank
- There is Town Debt if you forget to deposit money for upkeep. You become bankrupt for 3 days before your town is deleted <br>

If a town is deleted, the town gets wiped, the buildings get removed like nothing ever happned. If a Nation is deleted, all the Towns get removed from the Nation.

## Daily Upkeep

Nation Daily Cost: <br>
1,000 * Number of Towns in Nation <br>

Town Daily Cost: (Chunk cost will change depending on the state of the servers economy) <br>
20 * Number of Chunks owned <br>

The Upkeep costs are taken from the town/nation bank <br>
Anyone can deposit money into town and nation bank <br>
But, no one can Withdraw ANY money from the Town or Nation bank <br>

**The Upkeeps are high to avoid AFK town which take up space, limiting new ones from being created**

## Town Levels

**Town Levels:**
These town levels depend on the amount of members you have in your own town. They decide how many chunks you can claim, buy, and own. Nations can also boost the amount of claims

- 1 <br>
Members: 1 <br>
Purchasable Chunks: 0 <br>
Max Chunks: 30 <br>
- 2 <br>
Members: 5 <br>
Purchasable Chunks: 10 <br>
Max Chunks: 50 <br>
- 3 <br>
Members: 15 <br>
Purchasable Chunks: 20 <br>
Max Chunks: 150 <br>
- 4 <br>
Members: 25 <br>
Purchasable Chunks: 30 <br>
Max Chunks: 250 <br>
- 5 <br>
Members: 35 <br>
Purchasable Chunks: 50 <br>
Max Chunks: 350 <br>
- 6 <br>
Members: 50 <br>
Purchasable Chunks: 60 <br>
Max Chunks: 500 <br>
- 7 <br>
Members: 75 <br>
Purchasable Chunks: 80 <br>
Max Chunks: 600 <br>
- 8 <br>
Members: 100 <br>
Purchasable Chunks: 100 <br>
Max Chunks: 750 <br>

**Nation levels:**
Dependant on number of members in the NATION, which is made from all the TOWNS

- 1 <br>
Members: 5 <br>
Town Chunk Bonus: 0 <br>
- 2 <br>
Members: 30 <br>
Town Chunk Bonus: 10 <br>
- 3 <br>
Members: 70 <br>
Town Chunk Bonus: 15 <br>
- 4 <br>
Members: 100 <br>
Town Chunk Bonus: 20 <br>
- 5 <br>
Members: 150 <br>
Town Chunk Bonus: 25 <br>