---
title: NDI
description: What the NDI is and how to calculate it
---

This NDI system makes sure no PVP clans can take over the server as it will make them grind for a long time, which they dont like. In addition, the NDI, paired with out custom War system makes sure all the wars are fair.

# NDI

- Measures the strength of a nation
- Impacts the amount of nations fighters in a war and the overall power of a nation
- Certain Building  + Items increase it or decrease it
- NDI gives additional claims, 3 points = **+1 chunk**
- All buildings MUST have a nice interior and parking lots **DO NOT** count
- 100 points needed per person for war. You start with 3 no matter the amount of points, max 15 people so 1500 points needed for a max size team
- Highest 3 Point Leaders are in a vote on who will host the UN, First UN leader appointed 1 month into wipe. Highest point leader every 2 months becomes the new UN leader. So, 3 terms of the UN per season. Your Nations Capital Town Must have a UN building to qualify
- Can apply to be counted/recounted every 3 weeks by mods and before wars. You will open a ticket, sending your own calculated score and it will be double checked. You will HAVE to send coords to all the locations of every point
- There are different levels of nations, according to their NDIs. These levels decide which nations can participate in events.

- Level 1 = **X**
- Level 2 = **X**
- Level 3 = **X**

## NDI Calculator

**Increase:**

- *From The Vehicle Plugin:* Plane **+10**, Helicopter **+15**, Tank **+25**, only count if you have an airport or military base. Airport can only hold 6 planes or helicopters. Military base can only hold 5 tanks.
- Railway with a train *(Vehicle Plugin)*. 100 block length and 7 block width, **+10**, 200 block length **+30**, 300 block length **+40**
- Members: Every 10 members you get **+10**
- House Building: Must be at least 10x10 blocks. Can only do one per citizen, **+1**
- Skyscraper: Base 10x10, height 100. Can only do one per citizen, **+15**
- Airport with runway at least 200 blocks long and 8 blocks wide+ 2 Hangers 20x20, **+50**
- Military base 75x75 with fence and a moat. Must also have a tank depo. **+50**
- Port, at least 200x200, (will be ships later), **+50**
- Highway 8 blocks wide minimum, per 100 blocks length **+15**
- Hospital, 50x50, 2 floors, **+15**
- University, 50x50, 2 floors, **+15**
- A UN building, one per nation, 50x100, nicely decorated (Owners will determine this), **+50**
- Allied with another nation, per 10 of their citizens, **+1**

**Decrease:**

- If not have $10,000 per citizen in nation bank, per citizen who doen't have $10,000,  **-3**
- Any nation as enemy, per enemy **-3**