---
title: War
description: How war is innitiated and how it operates
---

# War

- War is linked to the NDI of a nation, making sure "war clans" cannot declare war all the time, check out the NDI page to find out hoe it works.
- War can only be declared war ONCE per 2 weeks, per nation
- Although you can declare war once per 2 weeks, others can decale war on YOU during this time
- You can only declare war as a Nation, not a town
- There can be a max of 15 players per side
- Buildings shouldn't be destroyed after gaining land. This is to respect the builders. Buildings either way increase your NDI, so there would be no reason in destroying them.
- The was will be held in an arena which you can download and create strategies in. A tutorial on how to do so in the Discord Server

## How War Works

- Towns, without a nation can't declare war on nations or towns. But, Nations can declare war on towns (which dont have a nation alligned to them) if they are in their way of expansion. This can only happnen if the town is at least 5 chunks away from the nations towns
- Nations can delcare war on other Nations for a reasonable reason
- Must have the wanted nation you want to go to war with marked as an Enemy in game for at least 3 days
- Create a ticket as an "Other Category" and create a Justification to declare war
- If the war reason gets accepted, a conference will be held with the leaders (and a max of 3 other representatives) of both nations, deciding the terms and arena of the war. 
- You cannot demand full control of the nation as you can claim 2 towns (MAX) at a time, if you want them. The towns have the be bordering eachother and cannot just be taken from the middle of the losers nation
- You can also claim compensation, or item rewards
- Depending on your nations NDI, the **amount** of fighters will be decided, At least 60% of fighters must be from your Nations, you can invite allies
- A date of the war will be decided, 5 days later max. If no suitable time can be decided, the war will be held on the 5th day from the conference at 7pm GMT
- An arena will be setup and both nations will fight.

The fight is tied to a special chunk-by-chunk invasion system. There will also be a video on the discord server explaining how it works and functions.

### When War Begins

- Everyone will be teleported to their sides of the arena
- Both teams will have half of the arena claimed by their capital town
- When you're in the arena, and if you leave, there is no coming back as you're only suppose to have one life. You also can't go back to your base and get new resources to fight for longer. This means, with what you come with, you stay with.
- When everyone is in, the battle begins and both teams will try to gain the others land, chunk by chunk
- The war lasts a maximum of 2 hours
- You can break/place blocks deciding if you chose to in the previous conference. (This also decides if you can use crystals)
- The war is won if one of the teams members is fully eliminated or whoever captures more chunks from the opposing team in the 2 hour set time